12:
Местные органы управления образованием; начальная школа; общеобразовательная школа; средняя школа; искусство; английская литература; информационные технологии; экзамены на получение аттестата о среднем образовании; продвинутый уровень экзамена GCE; обычный уровень экзамена GCE; государственное образование; частное образование; государственные школы; школы-интернаты; смешанные школы.

13:
compulsory; under five years of age; either ... or ; kindergarten; molding; curriculum; principal; more like ...; school uniforms; foreign languages; continuing education; college preparatory class; free; vacations.

14:
1. Education in the United Kingdom is compulsory from the age of five.
2. The establishments for pre-primary education are nursery schools and playgroups.
3. The main difference is that a child spends the whole day in a nursery school, while he or she can stay in a playgroup only for some hours a day.
4. There are 35,000 state schools in Great Britain.
5. The Local Educational Authorities (LEA) cater for the curriculum and exams in each region, appoint head teachers, and conduct assessment tests at schools.
6. Children go to primary schools at the age of five.
7. In secondary schools, children study subjects like Maths, English, Arts, English Literature, Geography, foreign languages, PE, IT, Religion, Science, Biology, and Sex Education.
8. At the age of sixteen, pupils take the General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) examinations (O-level).
9. Pupils take GCSE A-level at the age of eighteen.
10. There are no entrance exams to British universities; admission is based on the results of A-level examinations.

17:
Mike goes to a public school in Birmingham. 
He is thirteen and is in his third year now. 
His parents wanted to send him to a boarding school but Mike was against it. 
He likes his school and his studies, and he thinks that if he went to a comprehensive school, he would miss his home. 
The school he goes to is mixed. 
Mike has a lot of friends at school both among boys and girls. 
The classes run from nine am till quarter past four pm. 
Mike's favorite subject at school is IT. 
He says he wants to become a programmer when he graduates. 
Besides, he is fond of sports. 
He plays football and volleyball. 
The school he goes to has excellent sports facilities.